# CHAPTER 3<br>**Monitoring, Logging, and Remediation**

    ### Chapter Outline
    - Section Introduction
    - Introduction to CloudWatch
    - `Demo` Creating CloudWatch Dashboards
    - Exploring CloudWatch Logs
    - `Demo` Collecting Metrics and Logs Using the CloudWatch Agent
    - `Demo` Creating CloudWatch Metric Filters
    - `Demo` Exploring CloudWatch Logs Insights
    - `HANDS-ON LAB` Using CloudWatch for Resource Monitoring
    - Receiving Notifications with CloudWatch
    - `Demo` Creating CloudWatch Alarms
    - Introduction to CloudTrail
    - `Demo` Working with CloudTrail
    - AWS Config 101
    - `Demo` Using AWS Config
    - `HANDS-ON LAB` Auditing Resource Compliance with AWS Config
    - Remediation Using AWS Systems Manager and AWS Config
    - `Demo` Configuring Automatic Remediation Using AWS Systems Manager and AWS Config
    - What Is EventBridge?
    - `Demo` Using Amazon EventBridge
    - `Demo` Scheduling Automated Tasks Using EventBridge and AWS Config
    - `Demo` Exploring Health Dashboards
    - Section Review: Monitoring, Logging, and Remediation Summary - Part 1
    - Section Review: Monitoring, Logging, and Remediation Summary - Part 2
    

<br><br><br>

## Section Introduction
The main services covered in this section are:
- `CloudWatch`
- `CloudTrail`
- `EventBridge`
- `Config`
- `System Manager`
- `Health Dashboards`

<br><br><br>

## Introduction to CloudWatch
### What is CloudWatch
**Amazon CloudWatch** is a monitoring service to monitor the health and performance of your AWS resources, as well as the applications you run on AWS, and in your own data center.


<br>

### What Can CloudWatch Monitor?
- **Compute**
  - EC2 instances
  - Auto Scaling groups
  - Elastic Load Balancers
  - Route 53 health checks
  - Lambda
- **Storage and CDN**
  - EBS volumes
  - Storage Gateway
  - CloudFront
- **Database and Analytics**
  - DynamoDB tables
  - ElasticCache nodes
  - RDS instances
  - Redshift
  - Elastic Map Reduce
- **Other**
  - SNS topics
  - SQS queues
  - API Gateway
  - Estimate AWS charges

<br>

### The CloudWatch Agent
- The **CloudWatch Agent** - define your own metrics. You can install CloudWatch Agent on your own data centers.
- **CloudWatch Logs** allows yous you to monitor operating system and application logs.

<br>

### CloudWatch and EC2
#### Host-Level Metrics
- All EC2 instances send key health and performance metric to CloudWatch.
- Default EC2 host-level metric consist of CPU, network, dick and status check.
- Metrics are stored indefinitely.
- You can retrieve data from any EC2 or Elastic Load Balancer instance, even after it has been terminated.
#### Operating System-Level Metric
Memory usage, processes running on your instance, amount of free disk space, CPI idle time, etc.
- **By Default**<br>EC2 does not send operating system-level metric to CloudWath
- **CloudWatch Agent**<br>By installing the CloudWatch agent on your EC2 instances, you can collect operating system metrics and send them to CloudWatch.

### Metric Frequency
- By **Default**, EC2 sends metric data to CloudWatch in 5-minute intervals.
- For an **Additional charge**, you can enable **detailed monitoring** that sends metrics at 1-minute intervals.
- For **custom metrics**, the default is 1-minute intervals, and you can configure **high-resolution** metrics that are sent at 1-second intervals.


