# CHAPTER 4<br>**Storage and Data Management

### Chapter Outline
- Section Introduction
- S3 101
- Reviewing S3 Storage Classes
- `Demo` Creating an S3 Bucket
- Working with S3 Lifecycle Policies
- Protecting Data from Accidental Deletion Using S3 Versioning
- Protecting Data from Accidental Deletion with MFA Delete
- S3 Encryption
- `Demo` Configuring Encryption on an S3 Bucket
- `Demo` Configuring Static Website Hosting Using S3
- Introduction to Elastic File System (EFS)
- `Demo` Working with EFS
- Advanced EFS
- EFS and Multi-AZ Applications
- Introducing Athena
- `Demo` Working with Athena
- Introducing Amazon OpenSearch Service (Formerly Amazon Elasticsearch Service)
- OpenSearch Deployment Best Practices
- `Demo` Creating an Amazon OpenSearch Service Domain
- `HANDS-ON LAB` Create a Static Website Using Amazon S3
- `Demo` Leveraging Presigned URLs with S3
- Restricting S3 Accessibility with IP Addresses
- Introducing S3 Inventory
- `Demo` Using S3 Inventory
- `Demo` Using AWS Config with S3
- Overview of Storage Gateway
- Introducing AWS Backup
- `Demo` Using AWS Backup


<br><br><br>


## Section Introduction
The main services covered in this section are:
- S3
- Elastic File System
- Athena
- Amazon OpenSearch
- Storage Gateway

<br><br>

## S3 101
### What is S3?
- `S3` stands for Simplate Storage Service
- **Object Store**<br>S3 provides secure, durable, highly-scalable object store.
- **Simple**<br>Amazon S3 is easy to use, with a simple web services interface.
- **Scalable**<br>S3 allows you to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web at a very low cost.
<br>
- S3 is object-based storage<br>Manages data as objects rather than in file systems or data blocks.
- You can upload any type of file to S3(i.e. photos, videos, code, documents, text files)
- It cannot be used to run operating system or database.

<br>

### S3 Basics
1. **Unlimited Storage**<br>The total volume of data and the number of objects you can store is unlimited
2. **Objects Up to 5 TB in Size**<br>S3 objects can range in size from a minimum of 0 bytes to a maximum of 5 terabytes
3. **S3**<br>Store files in buckets (similar to folders)

<br>

### Working with S3 Buckets
1. **Universal Namaspace**<br>All AWS accounts share the same S3 namespace. Each S3 bucket name is globally unique.
2. **Example S3 URLS**:
   - https://bucket-name.s3.Region.amazonaws.com/key-name
   - https://fayecloudguru.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/Ralphie.jpg
3. **Uploading Files**<br>When you upload a file to an S3 bucket, you receive an HTTP 200 code if the uplaod was successful.

<br>

### S3 Is a Key0Value Data Store
- **Key**<br>The name of the object, for example: `Ralphie.jpg`
- **Value**<br>This is the data itself, which is made up of a sequence of bytes.
- **Version ID**<br>Important for storing multiple versions of the same object.
- **Metadata**<br>Data about data you are storing, e.g. content-type, last-modified, etc
  
<br>

### A Safe Place
- S3 is a safe place to store your files
- The data is spread across multiple devices and facilities to ensure availability and durability
- **Highly Available**<br>is all about the service being available when you need it.<br>Built for 99.5%-99.99% service availability depending on the S3 tier
- **Hihly Durable**<br>is all about your data stored safely and not getting lost or corrupted.<br>Designed for 99.999999999% (11 9's) durability for all data store in S3.

<br>

### S3 Characteristics
- **Tiered Storage**<br>S3 offers a range of storage classes designed for different use cases.
- **Lifecycle Management**<br>Define rules to automatically transition objects to cheapter storage tier or delete objects that are no longer required after a set period of time.
- **Versioning**<br>With versioning, all versions of an object are stored and can be retrieved, including deleted objects.

### Secure Your Data
1. **Server-side Encryption**<br>You can set default encryption on bucket to encrypt all new objects when they are stored in the bucket
2. **Access Control List (ACLs)**<br>Define which AWS accounts or groups are granted access and the type of access. You can attack S3 ACLs to individual objects within a bucket.
3. **Bucket Policies**<br>S3 bucket policies specify what actions are allowed or denied (e.g. allow user Alice to PUT but not DELETE objects in the bucket)


<br><br><br>

##