# Demo:<br>Creating an S3 Bucket

<br>

### Objectives
1. **Create an S3 Bucket**<br>Give our bucket a SND-compliant name
2. **Explore the Options**<br>Explore the available options in the S3 console
3. **Upload a File**<br>Upload a file from our local machine
4. **Grant Public Read Access**<br>Configure public read access for our bucket and our file

<br><br>

## Solution
1. **Create an S3 Bucket**
    - Navigate to `S3` and select `Create bucket`
    - In General configuration you need to provide values that will comprise a dns name, which has to be globally unique.
      - Bucket name: `my-first-bucket-53525758`
      - AWS Region: `us-east-1`
    - Object Ownership: `ACL disabled (recommended)`(default)
    - Block Public Access settings for this bucket: `Block all public access`
    - Bucket Versioning: `Disable`
    - Encryption type: `Server-side encryption with Amazon S3 keys (SSE-S3)`
    - Bucket Key: `Enable`
    - **Advanced settings** hold configuration to object lock configuration (i.e. Write Once Read Many (WORM) model), which prevents objects from being modified or overwitten for a fix amount of time or you can also set it to indefinitely:<br>Object Lock: `Disable`
    - `Create bucket`


2. **Explore the Options**
    - Create folder<br>Within created S3 bucket select `Create folder` to make a directory that will help with organization of the files:
        - Name: `Images`
        - Server-side encryption: `Server-side encryption with Amazon S3`
        - `Create folder`


3. **Upload a File**
    - Navigate into created `S3` bucket. and open the created folder (i.e. Images)
    - Select `Upload` and then `Add files`
    - Find and select file(s) you want to upload and press `Open`
    - In **Properties** you can select a Storage Class to be used. 
    - You can also configure **Metadata** that will be retrieved with a file.
    - Select `Upload` to finalize the upload of the file

4. **Grant Public Read Access**
    - If you try to access file in the bucket via URL provided with the file, you will get **Access Denied** response. The resason being, that all S3 buckets are created with public access denied. When yousing URL to access file in the browser, you are accessing it as unauthenticated anonymous user over the internet. <br>
    To make this file publicly available over the internet, we need to create buket policy.
    - Navigate to `S3` and select bucket created.
    - Inside bucket open `Permissions` tab.
    - In `Block public access (bucket settings)` block select `Edit`
    - Diselect `Block all public access` and press `Save changes`
    - Scroll down to `Bucket policy` (within Permissions tab) and select `Edit`
    - Copy bucket ARN
    - Select `Policy generator`
      - Select Type of Policy: `S3 Bucket Policy`
      - Effect: `Allow`
      - Principal: `*` (Everyone)
      - Actions: `GetObject` and `GetObjectVersion`
      - Amazon Resource Name (ARN): `<paste copied ARN value>/*` (the `/*` suffix is required to make this policy applicable to all objects within the bucket)
      - `Add Statement`
      - `Generate Policy`. This will generate a JSON format policy that you need to copy and paste into a **Edit bucket policy** window
    - Select `Save changes` to complete bucket policy creation
    - Test configuration by accessing the file via **Object URL**

