# Exam TIPS<br>Deployment Provisioning Automation

## EBS
- **Elastic Block Store: SSD volumes**
  - High available and scalable storage volumes you can attach to an EC2 instance

    | Feature| General Purpose SSD Volumes (gp3)| General Purpose SSD Volumes (gp2)| Provisioned IOPS SSD Volumes (io2 Block Express)| Provisioned IOPS SSD Volumes (io1)|
    |---|---|---|---|---|
    | **Durability**| 99.8% - 99.9% durability (0.1% - 0.2% annual failure rate) | 99.8% - 99.9% durability (0.1% - 0.2% annual failure rate) | 99.999% durability (0.001% annual failure rate) | 99.8% - 99.9% durability (0.1% - 0.2% annual failure rate) |
    | **Use Cases**|- Transactional workloads<br>- Virtual desktops<br>- Medium-sized, single-instance databases<br>- Low-latency interactive applications<br>- Boot volumes<br>- Development and test environments| - Transactional workloads<br>- Virtual desktops<br>- Medium-sized, single-instance databases<br>- Low-latency interactive applications<br>- Boot volumes<br>- Development and test environments| Workloads that require:<br>- Sub-millisecond latency<br>- Sustained IOPS performance<br>- More than 64,000 IOPS or 1,000 MiB/s of throughput| - Workloads that require sustained IOPS performance or more than 16,000 IOPS<br>- I/O-intensive database workloads|
    | **Volume Size**| 1 GiB - 16 TiB| 1 GiB - 16 TiB| 4 GiB - 64 TiB| 4 GiB - 16 TiB|
    | **Max IOPS per Volume**| 16,000 (64 KiB I/O)| 16,000 (16 KiB I/O)| 256,000 (16 KiB I/O)| 64,000 (16 KiB I/O)|
    | **Max Throughput per Volume**| 1,000 MiB/s| 250 MiB/s| 4,000 MiB/s| 1,000 MiB/s|
    | **Amazon EBS Multi-Attach**| Not supported| Not supported| Supported| Supported|
    | **NVMe Reservations**| Not supported| Not supported| Supported| Supported|
    | **Boot Volume**| Supported| Supported| Supported| Supported|

    - `io2 Block Express` **Provisioned IOPS SSD**
      - For the largest, most critical, high- performance applications: SAP HANA, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, and IBM DB2.
      - Up to 64 TB, 256,000 lOPS per volume.
      - 99.999% durability.
  
<br>

- **Elastic Block Store - HDD Volumes**
    - Highly available and scalable storage volumes you can attach to an EC2 instance.

    | Feature| Throughput Optimized HDD Volumes (st1)| Cold HDD Volumes (sc1)|
    |---|---|---|
    | **Durability**| 99.8% - 99.9% durability (0.1% - 0.2% annual failure rate) | 99.8% - 99.9% durability (0.1% - 0.2% annual failure rate) |
    | **Use Cases**| - Big data<br>- Data warehouses<br>- Log processing| - Throughput-oriented storage for data that is infrequently accessed<br>- Scenarios where the lowest storage cost is important|
    | **Volume Size**| 125 GiB - 16 TiB| 125 GiB - 16 TiB|
    | **Max IOPS per Volume (1 MiB I/O)** | 500| 250|
    | **Max Throughput per Volume**| 500 MiB/s| 250 MiB/s|
    | **Amazon EBS Multi-Attach**| Not supported| Not supported|
    | **Boot Volume**| Not supported| Not supported|


<br>

## Bastion Host
1. **Connect to Private Instances**
    A bastion host enables you to connect to private instances in your VPC from an untrusted network using SSH or RDP.
2. **Public Subnet**
    A bastion is in a public subnet and is reachable from the internet.
3. **Security Groups**
    You need to configure the security group associated with the **private subnet** to enable SSH / RDP access from the bastion.


<br>

## Elastic Load Balancer
- **Aplication Load Balancer**
  - HTTP/S
  - Inteligent load balancing
  - Routes request to a specific web server based on the type of request
- **Network Load Balancer**
  - Provides high-performance load balancing for TCP traffic
- **Classic Load Balancer**
  - The legacy option that supports both HTTP/S and TCP
  - May still appear in the exam
- **Gateway Load Balancer**
  - Provides load balancing for third-party virtual applicances, like firewalls, Intrusion detection and prevention systems
- **X0Forwarded-For**
  - If you need the IPv4 address of your end user, look for the `X-Forwarded-For` header


<br>

### Sticky Session
- Sticky seesions override the algorithm default behaviour
- Use cookies to identify a session, and send request that are part of the same session to the same target.
- Use for applications that cache session information locally on the web server.
- Consider shopping carts, online forms, a training website - we don't want to log out our customers halfway through a task.

<br>

### ELB CloudWatch Metrics
- HealthyHostCount
- UnhealthyHostCount
- RequestCount
- TargetResponseTime
- HTTP Status Codes

<br>

### ELB Access Logs
- **ACCESS LOGS**<br>Capture information relating to incoming requests to your Elastic Load Balancer.
- **DISABLED BY DEFAULT**<br>You will need to enable access logs.
- **STORED IN S3**<br>Encrypted and stored in an S3 bucket and decrypted when you access them.

<br>

### ELB IP address trget group
- **Elastic Load Balancer**<br>An Elastic Load Balancer allows you to load balance traffic to targets based on an IP address.
- **Register Targets**<br>When we register our EC2 targets, we can use their instance ID or private IP address.
- **Use Cases** EC2 instances that have multiple IP addresses, and resources that are accessed using an IP, e.g. RDS.


## EC2 Image Builder
1. **Automated**
   - EC2 Image Builder automates the process of creating and maintaining AMI and Container images.
2. **4-step process**
   1. Select a base OS
   2. Customize by adding software
   3. Test
   4. Distribute to your chosen region.
3. **Terminology**
   - *Image Pipeline*: Settings and process
   - *Image Recipe*: Source image and build components
   - *Build Components*: The software to include


<br>

## CloudFormation Troubleshooting

 1. **CloudFormation Console**:  
   Use it to view the status and error messages of your stack.

2. **Common Error Scenarios**:  
   - **Insufficient Permissions**: Ensure you’ve granted the required permissions for the resources you're creating, deleting, or modifying.
   - **Resource Limit Exceeded**: If this occurs, request a limit increase or delete unnecessary resources.
   - **UPDATE_ROLLBACK_FAILED**: If this occurs, you need to manually recreate any missing resources to match the original stack, then retry the rollback.


<br>

## CloudFormation StackSet
- **Create**/**Delete**/**Update**<br>CloudFormation stacks across multiple AWS accounts and regions using a single operation.
- **Cross-Account Roles**<br>For the Adminstrator account, use `AWSCloudFormationStackSetAdministrationRole`, which is allowed to assume `AWSCloudFormationStackSetExecutionRole` to provision resources in the target accounts.
- **Resource Access Manager**<br>Allows you to share resources with other accounts, e.g. EC2 instances, S3 buckets, and EC2 Image Builder.

<br>

## CloudFormation best practices
1. **IAM**<br>Control access to CloudFormation using IAM
2. **Service Limits**<br>If you hit a limit, CloudFormation will fail to create your stack
3. **Avoid Manual Updates**<br>Manual updates cause errors when you try to update or delete the stack.
4. **Use CloudTrail**<br>Use CloudTrail to track all changes, along with who made them.
5. **Use a Stack Policy**<br>Protect critical stack resources from unintentional updates and mistakes caused by human error.

<br>

## Blue/Green Deployment
1. **Low Risk Deployment Strategy**<br>Blue is the current version of the application. Green is the new version.
2. **Enables Testing**<br>After testing is complete, live traffic can be directed to the new version.
3. **Rollback Is Fast and Easy**<br>If something goes wrong after the new version is being used in production, simply redirect all traffic to the original environment.

<br>

## Rolling Deployment
- **Batches**<br>Deploy new application version and other changes in batches.
- **Cost effective**<br>You can set the batch size and the minimum number of servers to keep in service
- **Complexity**<br>Mixed environemnt. Rolling back involves a re-deployment of older version.

<br>

## Canary deployment
- Remember the canary in the coal mine.
- An early warning sustem that can indicate that something is wrong in your application.
- Strategy:
  1. **Deploy**<br>Deploy the new version to a small number of servers.
  2. **Direct**<br>Direct a small proportion of customer traffic to the new version, e.g. 10%
  3. **Enables Canary testing**<br>Test your application with a small proportion of real customers before you roll out to everybody.

<br>

## System Manager
Visibility and control of your AWS infrastructure at scale
- **Inventory and automation**<br>Organize your inventory and logically group resources together, allowing you to automate boring tasks.
- **Run Commands**<br>Perform common operational tasks on groups of instances simultaneously without logging in to each one.
- **Patch Manager**<br>Patch multiple EC2 instances simultaneously.


<br>

## 